---
layout: post
---
I recently had a video call with Meg Carrol, who is the HR Manger and a member-owner of the [Mariposa Co-op](https://mariposa.coop/) in West Philly. She has a certificate in cooperative management from Saint Mary’s University in Halifax, Nova Scotia in Canada. Saint Mary’s also offers an online master’s program for cooperative and credit union management, which you can check out [here](https://smu.ca/academics/master-of-management.html).

Before talking with Meg, I knew there was some concept of levels of involvement in a co-op. I was a member of the [Neighborhood Grocery Co-op](https://www.neighborhood.coop/ownership) when I was in college in Southern Illinois and have also done some reading on workers’ cooperatives. There seemed to be a big difference between the grocery co-op and a workers’ co-op. At one point, I had even wanted to build a tech company workers’ cooperative and spoke to someone who was a member-owner of an existing one. They told me that it was a lot of work and that there were many pain points in the organization because of the nature of decision making processes. Turns out democracy is difficult. I had some vague idea that there must be different kinds of co-ops because despite being a member of the grocery co-op in Carbondale, IL, I wasn’t involved in any hot-and-heavy debates about how to run the business. I joined the food co-op because I got a discount on my purchases and because I wanted to support the co-op. It made me feel like I was part of something that mattered in the community, but it didn’t take any real effort. All it took was a one time deposit of $100 which was paid back to me when I moved away and cancelled my membership.

One of the first things I learned from talking with Meg is that “worker owned” is a specific type of co-op. That’s what that tech company with the grueling democratic debates is. The grocery co-op in Carbondale is a mix of worker owned and “consumer owned.” In a consumer owned co-op, it is possible to work as staff and not be an owner. It’s also possible to work as staff and be an owner. Meg is both staff and owner, which means that she paid some money up front and in return, each year she gets a percentage of the co-op’s profit. This means she has equity in the company, and the amount she is paid changes based on how much the co-op made during the year and how much money she and other member-owners spent there that year.

My first takeaway was that there are very different types of cooperatives and that you can mix and match them however you like. My second takeaway was that being a cooperative brings along with it some built-in solidarity. Ideally, co-ops look after each other, support each other, and uplift each other. That’s not always the case, but it often does work out that way. When Mariposa opened their new store in 2012, they used old shelving that was donated by Weaver’s Way Food Co-op in Chestnut Hill. Last year, Mariposa donated this same shelving to the South Philly Food Co-op that will be opening soon.

You can build a regular old company that makes decisions on its own regardless of the people who work there or even the people who shop there, but you can’t do that with a co-op. To me, this is a huge strength. As I’ve said before, one reason I want to make this theater happen is because I want it to be a force that builds community and connects people. Learning more about co-ops has only made me realize how powerful the kinds of connections they provide can be.

Connecting to other cooperatives and to the surrounding community are points 6 and 7 of the Seven Principles of Cooperatives. To that aim, Meg told me about [PACA](https://philadelphia.coop/) - the Philadelphia Area Cooperative Alliance. This is an organization connecting the cooperatives in Philadelphia. They offer support, solidarity, training, and business acumen for co-ops in the area, and I’m planning to get in touch with them to help map out what the movie theater co-op might look like from a business perspective. I have been watching [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oCBE3xfM_1o&t=1347s) from their YouTube channel which has made me start thinking about some concrete questions I have for myself with regard to funding.

I left the call with Meg feeling rejuvenated and inspired and confident that I am making the right decision by making the theater a cooperative. She sent me some resources to study and did not sugarcoat the difficulty in learning about them. As she said, this *is* a business. I know next to nothing about starting a business, but reading about co-ops in general and researching specific, local co-ops seems to be a good place to start.
